# User documentation

## Home

After starting the application and opening it in a browser at
http://localhost:4201/home (localhost if you run the application locally), you
will access the page presented in the picture below.

<img
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowersteam/adtool/prod/services/base/AutoDiscServer/libs/docs/user_doc_images/home/all-note.png"
width="800"/>

First you can see a list of experiments and for each experience some brief
information. If you click on an item in the list you will be redirected to the
experiment monitoring page The numbers below correspond to those in red in the
picture. 1: The experiment name 2: The experiment id 3: The date of creation 4:
All modules used in the experiment (the system, explorer, the number of input
wrapper, the number of output representation and the host i.e.the server where
you run the experiment, _local_ if you run it on your pc) 5: The current state
of the experiment: _Done_ if the experiment ended; _Preparing_ if the experiment
is in setup or if its waiting the server; _Running_ if the experiment is in
progress; _Error_ if the experiment crashed. 6: Some tools to manage the
experiments' list: _Refresh_ to synchronize the list with the database; _Date_
to order by dates; A text zone to filter by the experiments or modules names.
7: "New experiment" or the floating button redirect to the experience creation
page.

## Experiment creation

### General presentation

<img
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowersteam/adtool/prod/services/base/AutoDiscServer/libs/docs/user_doc_images/creation/all.png"
width="800"/>

This page consists of 4 parts:

    1: An accordion to setup the experiment, define each modules and all parameters (we present each part later).
    2: Some tools to import and export the experiment configuration. You could export the current configuration as a JSON file and you could import a JSON file to setup the experiment. You also could re load a past experiment to set the current experiment.
    3: After having setup the experiment you could launch it with the "Create experiment" button.
    4: "Home" to be redirected to the homepage.

Now we will see each part of the accordion.

General information: <img
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowersteam/adtool/prod/services/base/AutoDiscServer/libs/docs/user_doc_images/creation/general-information.png"
width="800"/>

    1: The name of the experiment. Must contain only alpha numeric characters, "-" and "_".
    2: The number of iterations. How many generations of the system will be explored.
    3: The number of seeds. How many different seeds will be used.
    4: The saving frequency. Every n generations a checkpoint will be created
    5: The host. The computer on which the experiment will be run. Local if it is on your pc; the name of the server otherwise.

## Monitoring experiment

The monitoring experiment page give you access to the tools to manage the
experiment. You can visualize discoveries and logs generated by the experiment.
You have acces to some information about the experiment config. More important
you have acces to a jupyter lab link to the experiment to manipulate all things
generated by the experiment.

The _Details_ part displays information about the experiment config. You have
access to all modules used in the experiment, the current system, the current
explorer, the list of input wrappers and output representations and the config
for each of them and you can see all items the experiment has saved.

<img
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowersteam/adtool/prod/services/base/AutoDiscServer/libs/docs/user_doc_images/monitoring/details.png"
width="800"/>

The _checkpoints_ part displays every checkpoint id with its status (Done,
running, error...) and the experiment iteration number when the checkpoint was
created.

<img
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowersteam/adtool/prod/services/base/AutoDiscServer/libs/docs/user_doc_images/monitoring/checkpoints.png"
width="800"/>

The _jupyter_ part gives you access to tools to monitor many things. In it you
have acces to the database and every results produced by an experiment. The
"dataset_template" notebook show you how to acces the database and demonstrate a
simple way to manipulate data. The yellow/blue popover informs weither the
jupyter kernel is available and connected to the database or not.

<img
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowersteam/adtool/prod/services/base/AutoDiscServer/libs/docs/user_doc_images/monitoring/jupyter.png"
width="800"/>

The _discoveries_ part displays all discoveries made by the experiment. You can
filter them by seed, by iteration range and the number of discoveries per page
at will.

<img
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowersteam/adtool/prod/services/base/AutoDiscServer/libs/docs/user_doc_images/monitoring/discoveries.png"
width="800"/>

Finally you have a _logs_ part where you can read all logs made by the
experiment and filter them by checkpoints, seeds or log levels.

<img
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowersteam/adtool/prod/services/base/AutoDiscServer/libs/docs/user_doc_images/monitoring/logs.png"
width="800"/>
